gaming PC with brand new parts was 4
years ago and if I'm being honest it
kind of sucked it wasn't my fault I mean
at that budget I could only afford the
lowest card in nvidia's GTX gaming
lineup and I paired it with the lowest
chip in amd's ryzen 3000 Series and even
with those compromises we ended up
blowing the budget and we were stuck
running at low to medium settings at
1080p well no not anymore Intel has
changed the lowbudget gaming computer
scene with the release of their $250 Arc
b580 thanks to this GPU right
here everything that you guys see on the
table is brand new hardware and came to
a total of
$540 okay okay okay we still broke the
budget but we broke it by less and if
you're willing to put your trust in some
brands that we've never heard of you can
get the same performance as us brand new
for
$500 let's start building but not until
after I tell you about our sponsor
Greenman gaming they are running their
holiday sale until January 10th
including big savings like 20% off hell
divers 2 74% off Red Dead 2 ultimate
sorry you didn't put redemption in there
and I got confused Red Dead Redemption 2
Ultimate Edition and even more
award-winning games like God of War
Ragnarok rock head to the link in the
description to find out more about the
sale and stick around because we're
going to be browsing Green Man Gaming
and having you guys help us pick some
games to test after we finish our build
let's not waste any time and jump right
into our CPU of choice I mean at this
kind of budget tier I'm using the term
Choice a little bit Loosely here let's
have a look at the CPU that AMD was
willing to give us at a price that we
can afford the ryzen 5 5500
see here's the thing AMD doesn't really
make new ryzen 3 processors for the
retail Market anymore we did find some
relatively current ones but they were
OEM only and not accessible if you're
building your own
PC the good news is that by choosing an
older ryzen 5 we're still getting pretty
good bang for our buck we get six cores
12 threads boost clocks to 4.2 GHz and
amds somewhat aging but still quite
potent zen3 architecture this cost us
$79 and thankfully includes a cooler
meaning that we don't have to spend
Budget on one later as for our
motherboard well I'm going to be
completely honest with you guys I'll be
finding out in real time if this was a
good choice we literally fired up PC
part picker and sorted low to high the
ASRock a520 M hdv micro was still a
whopping 70 dollar how is it that even
cheap motherboards are so expensive
these days and what are we even getting
for features here let's do an unboxing
Andy old school unboxing style we get
two SATA cables
oo an IO Shield
oo that's not Halloween why am I doing
spooky voice okay we got a manual see
no words ah we got an m.2 screw button
battery safety notice and we get the
board itself I'm expecting this thing to
be I actually don't know what I'm
expecting am I expecting it to be basic
because it's the cheapest motherboard on
the market or am I expecting it to be
decent because I paid $80 for it no $70
either way oh you know what actually
compared to the budget Boards of my
younger
years not
bad oh oh that's hilarious I bumped the
table as I was walking around it I
managed to snipe my mute button check
that out that right there my friends
that's that's skill all right so we get
actually what looks like probably either
a 3+2 or 4+ one phase vrm design uh
which makes sense that it would have
some what decent vrms on it given that
it does have socket am4 and technically
is compatible with even some pretty high
draw chips uh we don't have really any
cooling for it but hey at least it's not
one of those boards where it has the
through holes for cooling but then just
doesn't come with a cooler cuz it's a
cost down one so you look at it and
you're
like clearly the idea was to put cooling
on here is that because it needed it or
because it was aesthetic hard to say we
only get two dim slots but that is
pretty normal for a lower-end board and
honestly speaking on Modern platforms
most of the time I probably wouldn't use
all four dim slots anyway we get a
couple of pcie slots uh that one is at
least full x16 and we get m.2 which is
nice to see four SATA ports front USB 3
but no type-c couple USB 2s actually a
pretty complete overall
package um oh woo
IO wow wow you get you get some Modern
stuff okay you get a handful of usb3
ports gigabit L uh you know audio jacks
but oh man you got some retro stuff on
here too to go along with your HDMI you
get DVI DVID specifically you get VGA
PS2 for that classic keyboard you're
rocking and a couple usb2 ports Frankly
Speaking not bad like there's nothing
here from a gaming standpoint that I'm
looking at going oh no I will simply not
be able to uh play my games um yeah I'm
as long as it runs
stably and doesn't have any serious
problems with it I think I'm actually
okay with this now Elija you did mention
that there were some cheaper boards
correct we actually found some on New
Egg for as low as $43
$43 but they okay there's got to be a
reason we didn't choose them let's go
ahead and uh let's fire up the old the
old uh fresh
egg the old not aged you know fertilized
and hatched
egg it's new I I got it yeah I know I'm
just trying to be helpful okay
components and storage come on come on
over here
Andy let's find the
cheapest the cheapest am4 motherboard we
can I want one that's in stock I want
one that's sold by New Egg and I want
one that is brand
new discount current promotion you what
the heck is useful links combo up
savings warranty what ises what does
warranty mean oh okay oh yeah okay
that's cool you can select the warranty
thing availability discount dang it
where is it I I swear I found this
before we started the stream and now I
can't find it anymore I want to not
refurbished
one uh sort by lowest price
do you know how to find the I'm pulling
it up wait no
way Elijah yes sir the cheapest thing
they have is $94 now what the heck is
going on
here seller are you on Canadian or are
you on no I'm on
do oh that's that is actually not what I
was expecting to happen here it's kind
of funny cuz remember the brands of
those boards were Brands we didn't
recognize and we kind of made a joke in
script review that they might vanish in
a week uh yeah I guess those Brands
vanished within the week no there's no
way there's no way we're going to find
it we're going to find it do you have a
link to the boards uh not from those
cheap ones no uh show more okay oh my
goodness look at some of these Brands
there's hoen gagger you see this Andy we
got hoen gagger brand we've got Ecom
hoer I found a we've got mfh zp K oh
hold on I think it's this one I think I
got
it yep that's the same one dude so it's
actually gone up in price it's gone up
in
price the the uh Juan Jui oh I have Andy
Andy help
me Juan I don't like no I I can't figure
out the T all right well it's $56 now
for one of these oh dude that would only
save us like 15
bucks Hamburg ERS all
right well anyway we're going to see if
we can end up under 500 bucks either way
let's go ahead and get our CPU installed
here uh in case we don't find yeah oh it
was $43 before okay for those of you who
have never seen how to install an am4
CPU this is going to be a treat so you
lift up the arm you do the thing oh yeah
there you go got that triangle right
there delicious Golden Triangle
would you eat golden triangles breakfast
cereal oh yeah cuz I think I
would I'd be super down for some golden
triangles I think that's a pretty I
think that's a pretty promising
promising cial name uh all right while I
get this cooler installed oh my God
where did you find this cooler Elijah it
was in the stock pile bin it's so dirty
is it I grabbed the one that was on
top the one you would get would be much
cleaner uh yeah see the thing is a lot
of our CPUs are either samples from AMD
which don't come with coolers or they're
just they've been kicking around long
enough that we've lost all the packaging
and coolers and accessories and all that
so this is just a random AMD stock
cooler yours would probably look a
little different uh Dan I think the
script calls for me to do or the plan
calls for me to do a merch message right
about now yeah sure I've got got any
merch messages yet should I explain what
they are oh yes merch messages are the
way to interact with our live live
streams all you got to do is go on LTT
store.com we got a lot of great stuff
that you can check out there right now
uh you can uh back order one of our
Precision screwdrivers and bit sets uh
you can pick up a regular screwdriver
we've got lots of great clothing and
apparel t-shirts hoodies all oh oh wait
I think the cargo pants are out of stock
whatever the point is we've got lots of
stuff and just add it to your cart and
you'll see a little box to leave a merch
message for the stream it'll go to
producer Dan who will forward it to me
or throw it up on the on the stream or
forward it to someone else internally
who can answer your question basically
he'll get you an answer sometimes his
answer is Frankly Speaking not great
it's just whatever he can quickly type
up when he's going through the flurry of
merch messages but hey at least you get
something in return you get
acknowledgement from Dan and you get
your order in the mail which is better
than a lot of sort of throw money at the
screen streamer things so that's how
merch messages has worked and do you
want to show them how a curated one
works sure hey lde does Intel with their
xc2 Graphics potentially make the cut
and shift things for NVIDIA HQ to make
them change their
path I don't know I really don't think
so I think that if I'm Nvidia right now
I am looking at XE as kind of like a an
interesting
Sideshow um cuz like all you got to do
to figure out where nvidia's priorities
lie is is follow the money right
so I forget the exact mix right now
because I haven't looked at it in a
little bit and it's not the kind of
thing that keeps me up at night I'm not
an Nvidia shareholder but what I can
tell you is that there has been a big
shift in their revenues between what
used to make them a a predominantly
gaming oh and also professional
visualization company to what they are
now which is a predom Min
Enterprise uh compute company that has a
gaming arm
um right now xc2 is not any real threat
to Intel's Enterprise Ambitions um and
so I just think they're probably looking
at this kind of going okay well uh this
is a thing that exists and we're aware
of I I doubt they're I doubt it's going
to I doubt it's going to result any kind
of significant shift in strategy at
Nvidia with that said with that said
Nvidia has gotten to where they are by
being ruthless
competitors sometimes when it just like
doesn't even matter when they could
totally just let someone else have a
bone they're like no I will have all the
meat and all the bones and all the broth
and all the vegetables and everyone else
can have nothing and that's gotten them
to where they are today so you never
know with Nvidia they might just ignore
Ark treat it as a complete non-threat I
mean Intel is currently a ship without a
captain even how is how can you take
them that seriously um but they also
might just go hm someone else got a
morsel let's crush
them you never can tell with those guys
this mounting bracket is stuck and I am
doing my best to stall for time while I
fix it but I having a very difficult
time with it the the arm is stuck too
high and it won't come down low enough
to grab the to grab the thing Dan do you
have another merch message to help me
stole with nope oh good oh I just one
just came in oh nice wonderful how do
you know if you're in love
what um
what what kind of wait what is that a
real merch message that's not you made
that up it'll pop up on the screen in a
second no way it's from Bradley nobody
sent
that there it is oh it's real he can't
fake that to my knowledge I don't lie
how do you know if you're in love
well let me put it this
way you see that special
computer you lock eyes for the the first
time she's running Doom maternal
actually that's that's a bit of an older
a bit of an older game which is fine
which is fine it's fine to be into the
older computers uh some of them they've
uh they've really taken care of
themselves and okay sorry this is really
this is really coming off the rails
here Indiana Indiana Jones in the great
circle
they uh I don't know I don't know how to
answer that question so instead I'm just
going to talk about in this
cooler it looks like it will require
some disassembly so I've pulled out my
LT Precision screwdriver that hopefully
oh wait do I even need do I even need to
do
this oh goodness I don't actually know
if I need to take out this screw but I'm
committed I believe that you just hook
over one of them and then throw down the
latch on the other side I don't think
you have to remove that if you want to
put it on the computer uh no no no no
though the problem is that this is stuck
oh it won't come
down so no no I'm well aware of how to
install an AMD stock cooler you
guy thank you for that though I was
there when the AMD stock cooler was
written Daniel
besser jeez goes on the motherboard yeah
thank you for that technically the CPU
but so the issue is that I need to get
in there I've seen this before where it
gets jammed
don't forget to put the CPU in first so
you guys thought you were tuning into a
stream where we were going to be doing
a build computer build but instead
you're getting the first ever AMD stock
cooler tear down on
LTT are you kidding me how does this
come
off I just need to get I just need to
get in there uh okay does the fan pop
out or
what are you even serious right now AMD
yep no there's plastic clips that hold
the fan in so we're just going to bend
those back ever so
gently all the while cursing Elijah uh
would you like me to get a new cooler
out here nope no what I want to do is
defeat this one it is now my arch
nemesis okay I will give you two minutes
before I call J two minutes yes no way
well I don't want to drag this on too
long Lin no that's what the people came
here to see they came here to see Tech
tips I'm glad they did but we have other
things to shoot today no no no no this
is the only thing we're shooting today
okay there we go okay so why is it
stuck
buddy get get it together here
okay what are you stuck
on
oh okay so here's what happened the arm
got up too much somehow someone jammed
it so it's getting stuck on the fins
here see that and this plastic tab right
here is preventing it from moving over
enough to not be stuck on the fins so
what we got to do is we just got to kind
of force it a little get oh my God get
out of the
way wait are you even are you even
serious right now buddy oh it's not no
no no it's much worse it's much worse so
this piece right here you see that is
supposed to be in between here and
instead it's stuck on one of the
fins how did this
happen how does this one
uncp oh yeah there we go oh I could have
taken the whole thing off without I'm
doing those screws there we go okay
there we go so now we can bend this fin
back you following Andy y this can go in
between there where it's supposed to be
okay so it's got that slide so you can
stretch it over the
thing this can come back on there we go
all right take that stock cooler you
just got Tech
tipped you're fixed well it's not
necessarily fixed yet I could still
break these little plastic Clips while
I'm putting it back
together there we
go there we
go that is how it's supposed to work
supposed to be able to come down in
order to fit over the
thing all right Dan you got any more
merch messages yeah sure I got a couple
here hit me how do you think AMD will
compete with the 50 Series and the Intel
B
series
dude I don't know the more I look at it
and obviously you know I don't know
anything about the performance of 50
Series yet um certainly nothing concrete
we don't have cards in hand and even if
we did I wouldn't be able to tell you
anything about them um I don't know
anything about amd's upcoming cards
other than that I could probably
speculate that just like with the um
PlayStation 5 Pro we're probably going
to see improved upscaling um because AMD
and Sony seemed to make it very clear
that there was some Next Generation
Hardware going on there um so upscaling
and Ray tracing I would expect to be
very much improved in amd's Next
Generation products other than that I
don't really know anything concrete
about them there is the rumor that AMD
is
basically not going to bother with the
very high end anymore um and they've
done that before with some success
they've actually done it twice they
skipped having high-end cards in their
old 3000 Series like Radeon HD 3000
Series so their top end card was the
3870 with that like weird Frankenstein
Crossfire card that had two 38 70s on it
acting as their Flagship and then they
did it again with Polaris so the 500
series uh where the 580 or I think
technically they had a 590 but it was
basically a 580 so the 580 was their top
end card that time um and they managed
to they managed to by focusing on just
kind of that um that affordable
mainstream price point they managed to
gain I don't know a little bit of
momentum and they came back with
high-end cards but then they still
haven't managed to kind of keep that
momentum so I don't know what to tell
you AMD amd's GPU team just hasn't been
able to execute the same way that their
CPU team has been able to and without
being embedded in that team I wouldn't
be able to tell you exactly why that is
I can just tell you that what I'm
observing from the outside is that
they're having a heck of a time with it
and it's it's honestly kind of
frustrating from my perspective because
in some ways I don't even I don't even
think they're doing like a horrible job
right it's not like they don't have
competitive products out there it's
just they just somehow don't seem to be
executing they can't get the
sales all right here we go sorry
I ah there we go I couldn't reach this
screw anymore once that was back on
there
there we go all right Dan hit me again
sure why does LTD store not oh wait no I
wasn't done yet never mind I lied um so
long story
short I
suspect strongly that AMD is probably I
think we're I think based on the rumors
we're probably going to see a repeat of
that strategy where they kind of Target
a mainstream price point and you know
For Better or For Worse we're going to
we're going to see how that goes and
then as for Intel I think they've I
don't think they've given any real
indication so far that we're going to
see a higher-end Arc so it looks like
Intel is going to be gunning for that
that value segment that like Esports
gamer segment uh as for NVIDIA um I
think it's very clear that they're
extremely comfortable at the at the top
of the
roost maybe what we'll see is a future
where Nvidia is completely dominant at
the top mostly dominant in the mid-range
and then AMD and Intel are kind of
fighting it out in the value segment
which I think would be really good for
gamers because you'd effectively have
some competition everywhere other than
the you know, 1500 to $2,000 cards where
I mean realistically if people can
afford that then what do they need the
competition for anyway apparently they
can afford that uh okay are you kidding
me I seem to have re broken it all right
no no no I will fix it I Dan will give
me one more merch message and then I
will I will quickly uh I will quickly
fim aate it why does LTD store not have
Canadian dollars for pricing for fellow
Canadian Shoppers Ah that's a good
question the reason is that all of our
costs are in US dollars so all of our
pricing is effectively derived from our
costs in US Dollars meaning that
if we had pricing in Canadian dollars it
would simply be derived from our USD
pricing
anyway so it doesn't matter so as much
as you can kind of look at the pricing
and go oh I could totally afford this If
Only They priced in Canadian dollars
that's not how it works the way it would
work is our pricing would just be our
pricing in US dollars times the exchange
rate to Canadian dollars because our
costs are in US dollars so pricing in
Canadian the one benefit would be that
um there's no exchange rate on the
credit card which is that is truly a
good benefit um however maintaining an
entire set of different storefront um
for Canadian dollars when the cold hard
truth is that Canadian Shoppers are a
small small small fraction of our base
is um is not something that our poor
accounting department wants to deal with
at this current time some someday we may
open up multicurrency it is a feature
that Shopify enables but it is not a
free feature that Shopify enables um I I
forget if it's first party or if it's
through partners and so it's
not um it's not necessarily something
that will actually result in lower
operating costs or lower pricing because
if we're absorbing the cost somewhere
either running this feature then it's
either that or you absorb the cost in
your credit card fee
basically every time we've run the
numbers it's pretty much come out in the
wash and there's not much point in doing
it you know what there is a point in
doing continuing this bloody PC build
our total is now
$150 that is more than I would want to
spend having only two parts but that's
kind of what we're stuck with because
modern generation ryzen 3s don't exist
anymore so let's move on and talk about
our Ram ah yes this was once again
determined by low to High pricing with a
filter for kits that run at at least
3200 megat transfers per second I got to
say guys I'm very excited to install
the Silicon power x power turbines we've
got two 8 gig sticks which I would
consider to be pretty minimal for modern
gaming this is one of those situations
where in an Ideal World I would actually
like very much to be able to put 16 gig
stick into a system like this and know
that I'm going to upgrade to 32 gigs
running in dual Channel later but every
time I talk about that these days people
get so mad at me so there you go guys
there's your two 8 gig sticks running in
dual Channel you'll get the full
performance today but what it means is
if you ever wanted to upgrade from 16
gigs to 32 gigs you're going to have to
just Chuck these and put in two 16 gig
sticks and I do understand that not
running a dual Channel these days is a
significant performance penalty um even
compared to you know back in the day
when many people used to do that just
throw in one stick for now and then
assume you're going to throw in a second
stick later when Ram got cheaper
um
but I don't know I think personally I
would take the compromise especially
because like a big part
of H I don't know would I because a big
part of the reason that we did it back
then too was that RAM prices were kind
of always going down whereas now they do
mostly always go down but they're
especially for ddr4 they're kind of
already Rock Bottom so there's no like
oh it's going to get cheaper later so I
can upgrade for a fraction of the price
so I don't know maybe that's something
where for another you know $19 or what
we pay for this thing like 18 bucks or
something like that right it was very
cheap it was like 21 I think yeah so for
another 20 bucks maybe it's worth it to
go 56 $60 and just get all the ram you
need today now storage this one's going
to be a bit of a longer story see we
almost went full Intel for this build
which would have been kind of hilarious
doing a $500 value gaming all Intel
build what even timeline am I on um we
were thinking maybe we'd use a 1200f CPU
but the problem is the cheapest Intel
motherboards that we could find from
reputable Brands did not support nvme
ssds
and in present year I just don't feel
right putting a SATA SSD into a brand
new build if I can avoid it there are
situations where SATA ssds make sense
say for example if you had already
filled your m.2 slot on a motherboard
like this yeah by all means add a SATA
SSD but if we're talking your boot Drive
you're going to want to use an nvme
Drive I mean they're priced pretty much
the same these days because most of the
cost is just the flash itself self so we
did avoid using a SATA SSD and we went
with this Patriot p300 PCI gen 3 m.2
it's 512 gigs which I mean I consider a
great value considering how much Apple
would charge for
that Ding yeah or whatever anyway Jokes
Aside jokes aside I know that 512 gigs
is not the most space in the world in
fact I would even go as far as to say
it's not really ideal like it's enough
that you can have some smaller games
installed and maybe
like one top tier game you know like
Final Fantasy 16 you pick that up from
Green Man Gaming and then a bunch of
smaller games and that's basically all
you can do
but your mic I it again anyway the point
is it's enough that you can at least get
started and you can always you know add
a hard drive or something like that on
one of the for ports later although with
that said does this case even have hard
drive okay we'll we'll get to the hard
drive conversation later for now let's
get this SSD installed and I think we're
due to check out some stuff on Greenman
and let these guys tell us what games
we're going to play later absolutely
okay cool well let's get the SSD
installed real quick here I'm not
monitoring chat are people enjoying the
stream or yeah seems very very enjoyable
right now there's a lot of people on
YouTube oh shoot there's a lot of people
watching oh yeah that's the thing about
streaming earlier in a day yeah there
almost there's 18 and a half thousand
people watching oh hey what's up
YouTube all right there we go boom m.2
installation man it's crazy I never know
what the right amount of instruction to
give these days is like back in the day
we could kind of make the assumption
that yeah you know most of our viewers
are building a computer for the first
time or whatever these days man there
could be people that have been watching
LTT for 15 years so if I'm sitting here
going yeah take your .2 drive and put it
in at an angle make sure it's snug put
it down two in the screw like those guys
are going to get bored but then we also
get feedback from people that are
building a computer for the first time
that are like whoa whoa dude slow down I
got no idea what's going on
um I almost wonder if there'd be some
value to
like like creating a for Basics Channel
or something like that cuz we we tried
to do some some basic stuff on the main
Channel back in the day and it just
did not fly um the audience like hated
that I mean even the more recent how to
build a PC last guide you'll ever need
those videos bomb out of the gate and
then it's not till YouTube's like like
recommended or up next and all their
various algorithms pick it up that they
start to to get anybody watching them
all right are we just going on to Green
Man gim do you have screen cap like
should I go do this over there we can if
you'd like I was planning on you just
doing it on your laptop you picking
three and then we'll do a poll on float
plane for chat to pick one I get to pick
three yeah so let's look through three
games that are available on Green Man
okay cool yeah we can do that all right
cool so uh Andy yeah I guess I'll just
turn this around and we'll hope that I
don't get any notifications that are
highly confidential by switching my
teams to do not disturb there we go I
dude okay is it just me but like
managing my status on chat apps I can't
okay okay it's not just me like I
literally can't like I see people that
are like they have their status set for
their vacation they've got their status
set when they go home at the end of the
day they got their status set when
they're in a meeting they're on a
conference call I'm
like like guys is it float plane chat is
it just
me is float plane chat working it is oh
a couple people said they agree is it
doing the
thing oh no I just have to refresh the
page okay I'm going to refresh the page
cuz I do not have enough brain cycles
for that like I have no yeah not just
you okay thank you and yes yes I know
that you can have automatic ones but
that only helps if you happen to be on
your meeting in that app like I don't
know and I'm sure you could build
automations for like your calendar or
whatever but I got to tell you with the
number of people that have access my
calendar my calendar is a disaster like
I would be in do not disturb or like in
a meeting or in a shoot all the time and
I don't even blame the people that that
help me with my calendar like I I I get
it because a lot of the time the the
amount of time that I take to do
something is unpredictable like for
instance I'm doing a gaming stream where
I'm building like a basic computer with
like six parts we've been streaming for
over half an hour and all I've done is
put a cooler on a motherboard and CPU
and a ram that's that's like nothing I
mean look poor Elijah is dying over here
he's dying yeah because his boss is
going to be like yo Elijah what the heck
why is the stream taking so long don't
you don't you make sure that coolers
work before you give them to Linus do
you have any idea how important Linus is
see I I I never have those conversations
because I think that's silly I love
fixing things but there's there's people
there's people that have like
performance targets to hit and they're
all like Elijah why are you taking so
long why why we we need more lus time
see you can see
is's that to be fair this stream has a
very high average viewership right now
so I'm good my metrics are hit I'm good
do you have metrics for that like uh I
don't think for like we're we're basing
things off some views and like how
videos perform really so I think in the
long term we'll see how this stream does
as a vaud oh interesting but as of right
now this is a there's a lot of people
watching so this is good I know so
little about how that stuff works these
days now that I don't actually have any
direct reports um so I just kind of
stand here and do my thing I fix coolers
uh what am I supposed to be doing right
now Green Man Gaming oh Green Man Gaming
our sponsor our sponsor Green Man Gaming
all right let's go check it out can we
brighten the screen yeah I can brighten
the screen whatever you want Andy
whatever's good for
you all
right o holiday sale well let's jump
right into that obviously right and
maybe uh maybe float plane chat can give
us some suggestions you guys don't get
to pick my three but you can give some
suggestions for my three okay I still
have never played a god of war game
which is extremely
embarrassing what kind of game should we
play
oh
dude civ6 is 20 Canadian dollars that's
like 154 us or something like that what
is this what's what's Anthology is like
Anthology like not good or
something like what happened if I switch
to one of the other
ones oh Lordy okay so so what makes it
Anthology guys help me out
here seven is just around the corner
that makes sense yeah but I heard C six
is really good I haven't actually played
it Anthology includes all the civ6
content released including the game the
six DLC Packs oh this is like the whole
thing okay I mean that seems like a w
right cool what else we got here
why is my hotkey not working alt left
Arrow hello buddy okay cool did that not
go that did not go in the cart okay
that's fine we'll add this card here
there we go oh now I've got two oh
balls I'll take a copy yeah um I I'll
figure I'll figure that out later okay
what else we got here bunge holiday sale
do they even make games other than like
Destiny like what what what's in here H
we got destiny 2 The Witch Queen Destiny
2 the light and dark
Destiny 2 the final shape and annual
pass Destiny 2 the final shape Destiny 2
shadowkeep pack Destiny 2 lightfall
Destiny 2 Legacy Collection Destiny 2
bunge 30th Anniversary pack Destiny 2
beyond the light
pack at this point people did I call it
or what like people are thinking this is
sponsored by Destiny 2 at this point
it's sponsored by Green Man K yeah I'm
not even I'm not even buying that okay
let's find some let's find some crazy
deals game over 75%
off M killer seven that's tempting for
bucks what else we got what is all this
zombie stuff zombies on a plane zombie
army 4 is there is are zombies trending
right now is are zombies back they never
left lonus you suck at parking sounds
fun I think I'd be down for this
I do kind of suck at parking the world's
most extreme parking experience sure
sure let's do it let's do it okay you
suck at parkings in the cart let's show
some more results let's find some deals
here
boys let's find one more and then we'll
get chat to pick between those three
civ6 you suck at parking
and um you know what I have never played
an XCOM game which as someone who loved
final Fantasy Tactics and generally
loves tactics games um as if anybody
ever put an actual real date in here
there we go um is sort of embarrassing I
should I should probably I should
probably have played XCOM so I'm going
to I'm going to check out this XCOM
collection hello
continue does it know I'm
lying there's no way oh it's just taking
a sec okay all right that's going to be
my three that's going to be my three
would you like to do a poll we'll do a
poll on float plane see which one they
pick cuz we won't have time to do all
three okay so we should see what maybe
let them pick let them pick two okay um
also you know what maybe throw God of
War in there because I personally kind
of want to see like a modern AAA game
I'm just I didn't add it to my card on
green man cuz I already own it uh let me
actually let me make sure let's let me
see which God of War I own I bought one
at some point cuz I was like okay this
is embarrassing I haven't played a god
of war game ever and then I just never
played it uh so let me see which one I
have and then oh my God I don't have how
do I not have my own Steam account
signed into this computer this is what
happens when you are streaming live and
you
don't there we go all right cool I am
now signed in but yeah let's throw let's
throw God of War in there and then I'll
just buy it from Green Man now if I
don't have the right one so you can go
ahead and put the poll up all right so
on float plane there's a poll top two
win God of War civilization 6 you suck
at parking or XCOM so everyone on float
plane can vote I kind of want to try you
suck at parking too I don't know I might
just hang around and play games for a
bit after I build my computer I mean
that's my reward for building a new
computer as I get to play games right
well we're actually planning a stream uh
we're doing a stream oh that's right we
are doing a stream we can promote the
stream so just like we did back when
Intel launched their Arc Alchemist first
generation cards where we sat down and
we played basically any game you guys
asked us to play on Arc to see whether
it would work or if there'd be any weird
artifacts or anything like that we're
going to be doing the same thing again
this time with battle mage and we've got
some ideas to kind of streamline it so
our goal is to get through like double
to three times as many games I have no
idea if we're going to be able to pull
it off because between unskippable
loading scenes and actually getting to
the point in the game where you take
control of the character and like all
that kind of stuff there could be some
there could be some
challenges but we're going to do our
best we're going to try Okay so no I
only have God of War I don't have God of
War Ragnarok so I'm going to go ahead
and just add that to my cart real quick
on green
man thanks again Greenman gaming for
sponsoring the stream do I have any like
talking points for them or anything like
that it's just their holiday sale till
January 10th go check it out they're
adding more games uh up until that date
as as well so keep checking back in you
know every other day or so heck yeah
okay do I want the digital Deluxe I
don't think I care I could just get the
regular God of War Ragnarok right I save
uh eight bucks okay
cool view Card wait which which four did
I say I had you wanted God of War
civilization 6 you suck at parking and
an x-com game oh that's right yeah it
was an XCOM Anthology okay that actually
looks like a pretty good deal okay
that's the one that I'm missing I must
not have pressed that all right why
don't we continue our build
here uh Elijah can you can you check
this out yes sir all right thank you
there XCOM the ultimate collection
that's the one I want looks like you
suck at parking and God of War winning
right now anyways really that's what
chat wants us to play yeah but this is
89% off so I just want to buy it anyway
because I don't have any XCOM games Okay
okay so if you could do that and here's
my wallet yippe thanks see you later
well I'm going to buy myself some games
now
right no
okay all right let's move on to our case
this is another area where you could
probably save some money compared to our
build whether that's just getting a case
for free from a friend or a computer
shop or even a recycling pile or whether
that's I mean yeah that's that's that's
probably the best way to do it or you
could also just pick something up for
like five bucks on on Facebook
Marketplace or Craigslist uh we have had
a lot of success over the years getting
free cases in fact I don't know if I can
think of a scrapyard Wars
where when you account for the other
value of stuff that we bought like there
have definitely been situations where we
have exchanged money and gotten a case
but I don't think that either Luke or I
have ever actually paid for the case as
part of that if get what I mean like we
were already getting a deal on the
hardware itself and by the way there's a
case or we get them for free getting a
free case is such an like ultimate level
hack for getting a better deal on a
computer because this case cost us what
was it like 40 bucks or something like
that 35 bucks okay 35 bucks and it is
boy is it ever unexceptional okay and if
you think about that 35 bucks even
though that's the cheapest case we can
find is still about what what does that
work out to about seven to eight% of our
budget so if we just didn't buy a case
that's the equivalent of everything else
we buy being on sale you know being 78%
off and us being able to get better
Hardware
elsewhere anyway because the goal of
this build was not to you know scrapyard
Wars it the goal of this build was to
build a brand new computer for around
500 bucks uh we did not go for the
secondhand case option but this is a
this is one of the big ways that you
guys could definitely stretch a dollar
uh this by the
way no I am not exceptionally strong
this case is just exceptionally light
this is the DIY PC s08
DG shockingly it has a tempered glass
side panel it actually has kind of a
pretty looking paint job
it's just the um it's just the features
and the room to work where it's going to
be a little on the lacking side there's
also areas were just
like I don't know how much money this
saved them but it cheaps out in ways
that I don't think I have ever seen
before check this out check this out so
where the io Shield Clips in okay
normally you would have like a solid
Edge along each side not on the DIY PC
s8g no sir
here you get a solid piece on that side
you get a little tab on the bottom to
click it into a little tab on the top
you see that little tab
Andy okay you get a little tab on the
top and then on this side they took four
little foldy tabs and you've got those
four little foldy tabs to kind of to
kind of click it against I don't even
think no I don't even think they play a
role in holding it into place so you're
just using the tabs on the bottom and
the side to hold it in as far as I can
oh no no they do they do yeah so you
just got four little tabs there that
hold it into place I mean realistically
once the motherboard's in it's not going
anywhere but you got this like weird Gap
that I have never seen before see this
this this Gap right here you see that
yeah weird
right what
[Music]
do good tempered glass though doesn't
break
nice that was
close uh it's got um two front USB 2
ports front USB 3 front panel audio
apparently it has support for 200 mm
radiators I mean other than just being
like the cheapest thing I've ever seen
it's not bad not bad for features let's
see what the build experience is like
Elijah did you put in the standoffs that
I need correct oh wow what a guy I was
actually going to go down memory lane
with you lonus you're going to go down
memory lane okay well why don't you come
over here on camera if you're going to
do that do you remember the last time we
tried to save money on a PC case I
do oh God I brought it with us today oh
that's wonderful thank you Elijah truly
it is a work of art that we are Unworthy
of so yes you can get a PC case for
cheaper and it requires some work Dan
might actually have some footage from
that video that he can throw up on
screen here where we butchered the heck
out of this case in order to make it fit
Modern Hardware oh my goodness not just
fit Modern Hardware have adequate
cooling for Modern Hardware look at
those speed holes look at that fire
extinguisher that you're holding cuz it
started to smoke when you were using the
grinder on it but
look yeah isn't it great and to be clear
okay not every older case is going to be
all solid panels on all sides and
require this much TLC to get any Cooling
and even if it does hey you can always
just take off the side panel and take
off the front panel um but realistically
even
spending what do we spend 35 bucks on
this yeah yeah even spending $35 on a
case is um going to get you something
that's going to look a little nicer and
a little more modern I actually am
coming around to this thing you know
what I Miss though I miss like antech
having killer uh case power supply
combos like the anex Sonata for instance
was just it was awesome because you got
a decent enough case you got a quality
power supply and it was at a really
really attractive price having to buy
those parts separately not in a bundle
basically as a requirement like I can't
think of anyone other than like does
like Raid Max or logicist still do case
power supply
combos I just I can't think of anyone
who makes a power supply you would
actually want to put in your system that
does case power supply combos
anymore what what's out there is there
anything still I know logist still does
logicist still does yeah I don't know
about Raid Max though no offense to
logicist I would not consider putting a
logicist power supply in my computer I'm
sorry it's just not really an option
this is this is Tech tips not Tech
disaster show all right we're doing not
bad looking pretty good apparently I'm
supposed to do a merch message yeah sure
I've got a couple here hit me Dan hey
lonus as a darn tough fan have you also
had issues with their socks being overly
snug and difficult to put on is that
something you have found with the
upcoming LTT socks any advice oh okay am
I rocking the darn tou today oh no I
have prototype socks never mind ignore
those
um I actually consider that a feature
not a bug I actually like that long
after their first wear because oh man
okay I don't want this to get you know
you know into like Kinks or anything
like that but I can't think of too many
things that I like more than putting on
a brand new pair of socks like so
good the point is the fact that darn top
socks stay like tight so when you put
them on they're like you know they're
they're like it's like a hug for your
foot I actually like that I consider
that a feature our socks would
definitely have uh like a like a like a
tighter kind of fit um but there's
actually practical reasons for that as
well I find that they work almost as
like a type of compression sock for me
so I um I I wear the like the high ones
and I find that when I'm doing sports
like whether I'm you know running or
playing badminton or whatever else U I
used to get shin splint back when I
would wear like lower socks or I
wouldn't wear tight socks so I find they
actually work as a compression sock for
me and uh yeah I I consider it a feature
um my understanding is that tight socks
can help uh help prevent like blood
pooling as well so
um get used to it would be the best
advice that I can that I can give you
especially play oh yeah especially
especially when traveling yeah Andy Andy
is an expert on the dangers of traveling
these days and I'm not going to get into
any more detail than that because that
would involve his personal information
which I have not asked him if I can
disclose but um yeah compression socks
on the plane very good idea now it's
time to talk power supply this was
probably the most challenging component
of this build to choose because pretty
much everything else was chosen for us
the ark b580 is the only reasonable
value GPU at the that we can you know
Target this price point point with we
went with the cheapest motherboard we
went with the cheapest reasonable CPU
the cheapest Ram the cheapest SSD then
the cheapest case like everything else
we were just picking what we can afford
for our $500 budget for the power supply
you guys can probably already see that
we spent a little extra on it we could
have gone with a $20 special from
someone like logicist or CoolMax um even
oh over here even this smart 500 watt
from thermal take would have saved us
enough that we could have between this
and the motherboard gotten down to our
$500 budget we could have done
that but the thing is Lucas from the lab
he's a lot biger than me I mean I I I
don't know I think if push came to shove
I could probably find somewhere to hide
that like he couldn't fit and he
couldn't like get to me either way it's
not ideal so we were forced to choose
something that he approved of and that's
why we stretched our budget here and we
picked up the minimum that he
recommended the Corsair CX 550 wat
bronze it's about $60 a lot more than I
would want to spend that's about 12% of
our total budget but it occasionally
goes on sale for about 10 bucks off um
there's another thing to note about this
it is not the full 600 watts that Intel
recommends for this GPU but we talked to
Lucas about it and he said that
realistically that seems to come down to
the arc b580 having somewhat higher
transients and as long as you've got a
quality 550 wat unit like a passible
quality unit it should be fine and
that's what we've got here so let's go
ahead and get this installed so thank
you Lucas and the rest of the lab's team
for the hard work that you guys do to
make sure that whatever we're
recommending even if we're on a tight
budget is something that we can stand
behind that is not going to fail you um
when you're in the middle of a session
all right let's get this bad boy
installed we got four scre oh I guess I
got options right um does this have a
filtered intake on the bottom wow you
know what for 35 bucks I'm actually kind
of liking this case Elijah it's not the
world's prettiest filter or anything
like that but she's got a a filtered
bottom intake and raised feet so even if
we're on like a medium pile carpet our
power supply is not going to
suffocate kind of I'm kind of coming
around to this case Elijah right doesn't
mean that I want to spend money on a
Case when I have a $500 budget it just
means that if I have to spend money on a
case for my $500 budget I consider this
one acceptable you haven't cable managed
yet so we'll see that's that's true that
is that is true words that you have
coming from your mouth um do you have my
laptop yeah sorry I was I was hoping to
look at floow plane chat but I
can't M then sure hey lonus Elijah and
sir besser do you still value and use
mechanical gadgets like mechanical
watches analog cameras or FX Rex over
digital ones it's sad to see these
industries is
fading oh boy man I got to tell you I
don't personally have a ton of nostalgia
for Analog Devices like I I grew up with
a rotary telephone and the second I got
a touchtone phone I was like yo this is
better and then when I had a touchtone
phone with a wire the second I got a 900
MHz cordless I was like yo drop kick
boom see you later old phone and then
and then when I got a cellular telephone
phone I was like no way I don't have to
be at home within range of my base
station to use this dude progress I love
progress dude my first camera I owned
was a digital camera that was my
first hold on trying to think if there's
anything before
that no I don't think so my first major
expense growing up was I bought myself a
digital camera in I think it was
grade 10 this is before I bought myself
a PC so I loaded my photos from that
digital camera my PowerShot a20 so this
is like 500 bucks or whatever was a lot
of money for me at the time I was I was
in high school I I loaded my photos from
my PowerShot a20 onto my Pentium I was
either a 166 or a 90 or something like
that like I I had like an actual crap
tier computer it was more important to
me to get a digital camera
um and I didn't want like I forget what
it was even called there was like this
weird little like really cheap one that
was like you know 144p like weird video
thing that I got for a Christmas present
and I asked for a gift receipt I took it
back I got like $100 credit or something
like that towards that poot a20 that was
like my first major paid for myself
expense and I have never looked back at
film and gone wow that would be so much
better
not once I'm so sorry um I'm just I'm
the kind of person that when I'm
evaluating something I'm all about okay
but how much does it cost me tomorrow
like what's my what's my Perot cost with
this thing um and it's not like I don't
see the value of like developed photos
it's it's a lot of fun to go back and
look at old scrapbooks and stuff like
that I I think that you know Polaroids
invite
they invite fun you know there's just
something about it that is that is fun
but I just I I can't get over the the
the the calculating part of my brain
that
goes
doll2
$120
$120 and maybe maybe I'm just not a fun
person maybe that's what it comes down
to because I feel the same way going to
like a commercial Paintball Field I'm
like nickel nickel nickel nickel nickel
nickel nickel nickel you know like I
just I I have a really hard time with
things that have a continuous cost it's
one of the reasons that I love PC gaming
so much or at least I used to before
everything was gcha um cuz you could buy
that game once and get so much value out
of it through you know the incredible
modding community or through multiplayer
and and and always changing experiences
and
um it's one of the reasons that I
just never understood like even when
Xbox 360 was like the king and and was
incredible I was like I'm sorry sorry it
has you you like pay to play online like
every
month what like I
okay I guess see you later yeah I'll get
that game eventually anyway and in some
cases I was wrong um but in a lot of
cases yeah I was uh I was I was less
wrong so back to your question film
cameras it's not even about the
inconvenience of developing the film for
me because if anything I think that
inconvenience is actually it it can
actually be a good thing or like the
less inconvenience more ritual right
going there getting the putting in the
film for development and you know
whatever else and it it forces you to do
it uh because otherwise there's no way
to ever see the pictures whereas with
digital you can kind of like quickly
look at it on your phone and then you
never bother you never get around to it
and so in some ways I actually think the
convenience of film is sort of Superior
in the actual experience of doing it uh
because you might actually you might
actually follow through and develop
something I think printing things is
really inconen
and that's why almost Nobody Does it um
but I just can't get over the the in my
mind
impracticality of paying um like a
significant amount of money for every
single shot I take even if it's like out
of focus or crappy I like being able to
go click click click click click click
click and hope that I get a good one I
take a lot of my pictures of kids and
animals though so like film is
especially wasteful when your kids are
making stupid faces or whatever
else
um we actually just shot a short circuit
yesterday rounding up uh instant cameras
so like Instax
Polaroid um uh what's her nuts Kodak has
Kodak has one that has like a little
built-in printer in it and stuff like
that and it's funny because they totally
knew Their audience when they prepped
the video they prepared like a like a
cost per shot for me as part of you know
evaluating which ones um which ones I
liked I actually co-hosted with yvon as
part part of uh promoting Ivon week on
float plane where it's going to be I
think there's an interview with her uh
she does a meet the cats where she shows
off all of our cats so we're going to
have that uh at lm. floatplane very very
shortly sorry I'm just wiring up the
front panel stuff I realize I'm just
building a computer not actually talking
about it here did our 24 pin power
connector our four pin power connector
up here got our front USB 3 front panel
connectors uh all this is this is nice
like I remember old budget boards
there's no way they would have you know
all the connectors silk screened on
there so you don't have to look at the
manual or anything like that this is
actually perfectly acceptably adequate
to build in I have no real complaints so
far HD audio boom all right that's it
our front panel connectors are
done would you like to know the two
games that won I I would like to know
the two games that won yeah hit me it
was almost 50% for you suck at parking
nice and then God of War God of War so
we're going to have to get this built
cuz we're going to have to make sure
those are installed because I didn't
know that those were the two that we're
going to win so well uh you could start
uh downloading God of War now right
possibly I onto a game drive you have do
you have a game Drive no oh all right
cool now for the moment we've all been
waiting for the reason that we are able
to make a kickass gaming computer for a
console like price the Intel Arc b580 if
you guys haven't seen our full review
view of this card it is a mustat but the
tldr is that it's out for as little as
$250 and in our suite of games it was
able to handle 1080p ultra settings and
never drop its average FPS below 60 to
say that this is the type of
game-changing disruptive GPU that the
entry gaming Market needed would be a
gross understatement the fact that we're
even calling $250 entry level is such a
mind mindblowing thing to me it says so
much about the way that Nvidia and AMD
have abandoned budget Gamers like you
used to be able to get something not
garbage from Nvidia and ATI for like a
hundred bucks in change nowadays cards
for $110 actually you know what this is
worth this is worth pausing not talking
about Arc for a second and firing up New
Egg again check this out you
guys we did this as part of the uh as
part of the prep for the video okay here
I'll just throw this on on the
ground okay components and storage GPU
and graphics card devices okay check
this out gaming video cards here we go
sort
by lowest price okay let's take out
refurbished let's see if I can find the
refurbished tag this time condition here
we go maybe this is where I was able to
find it
new all right
oh this is actually not that bad okay
you can get a 6500 XT hey where was that
where was that stupid junk from Nvidia
that we well we haven't seen anything
from Nvidia so let's see let's see what
we can find from Nvidia we're all the
way up to $170 we haven't found a single
Nvidia card yet here you go you can find
some okay how is this new are they still
selling 3050s this has one egg I'm not
even sure if I believe that we're all
the way up to 100
$80 so apparently we have to change our
filter to components and
storage just
gpus what's up I have this one yeah
there you go this is a 1030 if you want
an Nvidia card for like a 100 bucks in
change you are literally getting what is
this like a seven-year-old GPU or
six-year-old GPU or something like that
the architecture was 8 years old I
believe an 8-year-old architecture like
guys this design is older than my
youngest child pretty much only suitable
for outputting a secondary display AMD a
little bit
better but
this 1080p
ultimate 1080p did I say ultimate I
meant Ultra the point is it's got 202
generation battle mage XE course 20 R
tracing units clock speeds of up to 26
70 MHz and a total board power of 190
Watts not to mention that they gave a
huge huge Fu to the incumbents by
equipping it with 12 gigs of vram for
those of you who are out of the loop
that's a really big deal and the
conversation's been going on for a
little while but obviously it hasn't
been going on enough to reach nvidia's
ear back when they released the 4060
there was a lot of conversation around
the $200 pay wall that they put in front
of getting more than eight gigs of RAM
because at uh I believe it was 3.99 you
could get the 4060 with 8 gigs at$ 4.99
you could get the 4060 TI but still with
8 gigs of RAM and you had to go all the
way up to 5.99 to get the 460 TI 16 gig
which was functionally pretty much the
same thing as the regular TI but just
with a modern amount of vram on it and
there was no 4060 16 gig so they had a
460 starting at $400 but if you wanted
something that was going to be able to
keep up in modern games you had to spend
$600
which is more than this entire computer
even after we blew our budget now In
fairness those cards have come down a
little bit but anyone who invested in
them got a really awful value uh we
predicted and many predicted at the time
that not having 16 gigs or at least more
than 8 gigs of vram was going to be a
problem very soon and it turns out that
we are
very soon o'clock later and it's already
a problem Indiana Jones in the great
circle has a clear performance penalty
from using an 8 gig
card and it's only been what has it been
like a year and a half since the 4060
came out I'm trying to remember what the
actual uh what the actual timeline is
Elijah do you mind checking the release
date of the 4060 series for me real
quick thank you so much in the meantime
I'm going to look for a 632k screw
here it looks like it was is June 2023
era oh my yeah so a year and a half ago
oh man I'm good nice nailed it go lus
anyway the point is uh it has issues
with 8 gig cards and that is in spite of
it being an Nvidia sponsored title so
you go and you buy one of nvidia's basic
you know raid tracing ready cards or
whatever and you're going to have issues
with a game that comes out just a year
and a half later anyway we've got our
Arc battle mage in here let's go ahead
and get this plugged
in here we go and a
Boop and that's it that my friends is
how you build a PC now this is not a
perfect PC in fact I would say that it's
a pretty safe bet
that
um we would need to add at least I'd say
an intake fan here I'd say once we've
got an intake fan on the front to use
this vent draw some fresh air across our
GPU this exhaust and that intake working
together is probably enough but worst
case scenario we are on a tight budget
we have 500 bucks to spend we can always
add a fan later and we can run our side
panel off until our you know our next
lawn mowing session or you know whatever
it takes for us to get like you know
eight bucks for a fan off of teamu or
whatever um Elijah do you want to grab a
monitor and let's uh let's get this
thing going oh I guess I should do a
little bit of cable management first do
you mind grabbing a couple zip ties real
quick
I okay in the meantime Dan do you want
to hit me with merch
message yeah sure
um doing a bit laggy on the stream here
hold on let me just pause this um hi de
restocking my gift card stockpile after
the holiday buying have you ever got
refused tech support because of uh
so-called incompatible Hardware like
having GeForce not
Quadro
oh oh oh I mean we ran into something
like this very recently I don't know
about refused tech support but we've
definitely been told yeah there's
there's nothing we can do for you you've
got the wrong thing in situations where
I don't personally feel that that makes
a lot of sense we talked about this when
we were looking at that uh that spatial
lab's uh stereoscopic 3D monitor that uh
that Acer co- developed and they have a
commercial version of it that for
whatever reason is locked from running
games like you you you can't you you I I
understand okay yeah fine I can't run
the commercial stuff on the the gaming
version of it no problem but why on
Earth would you tell me that I'm not
allowed to game on my like like
professional grade one who are you to
tell me I'm not allowed to play video
games on this thing when it costs so
much more like the one that costs more
should just it should be everything that
the cheaper one is and more not just I'm
not going to go buy another one to play
video games um so I thought that was I
thought that was pretty bananas that one
was pretty recent I'm trying to think of
anything personally though and nothing
really Springs to mind for me Elijah
have you ever run into anything like
that sorry I missed the merch message
sorry you bought the wrong you bought
the wrong product I can't I can't help
you with that and their example was
something like you know running GeForce
drivers on Quadro just like artificial
software lockdowns I I feel like I
probably have had a story when I used to
do it support like I reached out to the
company that made the software that the
company I was dealing with was having
issues and they're like you're using
unsupported hardware and I'm like your
your specification was Windows 7 or
newer so like what do you mean I'm using
unsupported hardware and they were like
well it's Windows 11 and I was like well
that's newer but it's like oh it hasn't
been verified yet and it was like I had
those examples when Windows 11 was just
rolling out and we were deploying it on
sites but I've definitely run into into
um oh dude actually that reminds me yeah
I've run into quite a few where they
won't install because you have the wrong
version of Windows uh but it like
totally doesn't matter and once you
force it to install it totally works
yeah uh I hate that just try to install
and if it doesn't work or whatever you
can tell me it's unsupported during the
installer but do not outright block me
from installing it that's just that's
just wasting my time that's all you're
that's literally all you're doing is
wasting my time cuz I'm going to figure
out I'm going to go find the file and
I'm going to go you know fill in the
versions of Windows that you support or
whatever I'm just going to I'm going to
go fix it anyway so all you're doing is
making me do that which I don't like to
do the worst part was doing tech support
for companies that are using older
Hardware whether it was like a specific
CAD license or something that like only
worked on XP yeah and then obviously I
can't phone the company and be like hey
I want this to work on Windows 11 so I
have to like figure it out I have to
fight through either registry or other
setting changes to get it to work
because my client that we're serving
refuses to change to anything newer
which is fair you know what and valid in
some cases especially with stuff like
CAD software it's super valid yeah like
that machine just the panel by the
way prove
it okay anyways that machine just worked
works and their technicians like they're
they they they don't they don't care oh
yeah they don't care about Windows or
whatever they just need to get their job
done no I get it man I get
it I mean I think a lot of the time our
crowd right forgets that for a lot of
people a computer is not fun it is not a
toy it is just a tool it is just like
their pair of pliers it is just like
their you know work smok it is it is
nothing but a tool to a means to an end
um and for folks like that yeah I get it
you don't want to just like go upgrading
software and oh and in a lot of cases
one of the reasons that they're locked
into that older version of the software
is not because a new one doesn't exist
or that the new one doesn't have
features they'd like to use but because
the new one has switched to a
subscription model that was the biggest
complaint always I'm not paying for the
new version because I own this one and
this one does everything I needed to do
yeah so why but they get a pop up every
four minutes or every time they boot it
hey have you considered subscribing to
the new one you'll get all these fancy
features yeah I have considered it yeah
the answer is no
no um where' that spritzer bottle that
you had go there's one behind the arc if
that's what you're talking about yeah
well I didn't really want ISO but this
will work okay well yeah I just want I
want a nice clean side panel I want her
to look her best you know that's fair
nice clean looking her best side panel
for 500 bucks hey 500 bucks dude it is
so exciting for me to be able to build a
$500 computer again yeah like this used
to be my job uh back when I worked at NC
I was in charge of like the PC
configurations so I would I would you
know go and I would try and come up with
creative ways to save a dollar here and
there and like try to build the best
thing that I can for the money um did we
lose uh grommet from the side panel
maybe when you it was already gone when
I grabbed it from inventory oh got it
okay so it's not our fault we didn't buy
this brand new for the stream we're
sorry guys but we already had it in
inventory and it happened to be $35 so
it matched our
criteria got it makes sense mhm all
right let's pop this bad boy on
here oh yeah oh wait oh she's uh she's
not
symmetrical which is fine I can work
with this there we go I was going to say
is it cuz you dropped it did it Bend no
Elijah all right uh Dan want to hit me
sure we we've seen quite a few of wacky
fan configurations from Alex and the
team but when are you guys going to
power a whole PC with the back feeding
from spinning PC fans with an air
compressor oh uh wow what would that
even look like so we'd have to get some
kind of fixed voltage out of the fans
which means we'd have have to spin them
all at kind of like the same speed we'd
have to from there oh my God that would
be I don't know if we're going to do
that yeah yeah I don't know I don't know
if we're going to do that the answer is
never yeah that's it's a cool idea but I
think it's the kind of cool idea that as
long as Alex doesn't watch the stream
we're never going to have to
do I'll the time stamp dude 500 bucks
okay 540 but we could have cheaped out
on our motherboard cheaped out on our
power supply $500 class cuz we spent
what four 540 bucks right yeah uh yes it
came out to 540 total freaking awesome
yeah what card did you use I just
realized I gave my personal card to
Vance
for I grabbed the first one that was in
there oh
no wait what this one I grabbed the one
that looked like a bank
card this one
here yeah
Ivonne is going to kill me that's a USD
card the transaction was in
CAD I didn't well do I spoil it that I
didn't actually purchase with the card
because we already have the games on our
account oh I just did that for the fun
of it cuz you gave me the card and I was
like okay well I'm not going to actually
I was going to buy the cards I was just
going to put them on my account oh okay
well you're good I didn't say buy the
cards I me buy the games okay I didn't
actually spend any money oh I took it
off camera cuz I was like oh it's
probably just for the bit I was like
like haha buy the games and I was like
well I'm not going to actually dig
through his wallet no I was I was I I
don't fake things on camera I want to
play those games well I'm not I'm not
saying you don't want the games I just
did you gave me your credit card and I'm
like I don't feel comfortable typing
this
in stop staring at me awkwardly stop
just you're the one who's awkward all
right bucko bucko
I don't know man I I don't see I don't I
don't think it's a big deal oh hey we
don't have a desk pad oh we do have our
modmat though this is coming this is
going to be available on the store like
next year right or I don't know if
signups are ready yet but this is coming
out about mid January signups are are up
oh okay so then signups for the modmat
are up I don't know if this is the
actual final version uh but it looks
pretty close it's really close mod mat's
freaking awesome I'm extremely proud of
the team it is class leading in every
way price quality I I believe the value
of the information that's on it for like
a typical PC Builder uh really really
excited about this thing we worked with
the um uh we we worked with the creator
of the patented modmat uh mod right uh
in order to bring this to Market so
everything's kind of buttoned up there
really really
excited and like way more affordable
than a lot of the other options that are
out there right
now pretty cool all righty I still
wouldn't recommend at a $500 PC budget
blowing money on a on a modmat to build
it but especially as you're getting up
into sort of higher prices where that
would not be a huge amount of your
budget and wouldn't really cost you a
significant amount of performance it's
not a bad idea and comes with an
anti-static wrist strap and all that as
well of
course wow the stream latency is really
low these days did they uh did they
decrease the stream latency on float
plane I have no idea probably maybe like
check this
out that's just like a few seconds
that's really good great job guys thank
you
cool all right what do you think Elijah
oh no I whammied
it oh we closed the side panel I closed
the side panel oh we're going to be here
for 3 hours there's absolutely no shot
that this thing powers on on the first
go wait wait if we reopen the side if we
reopen the side no that doesn't count
he's already ruined it it doesn't count
once you close the side panel you have
jinxed it
officially sorry James yeah we really
did try to get this done in a reasonable
amount of time that's okay these guys
like hanging out with us anyway why
isn't he pluging in Dan hit me with a
merch message sure what are you doing
the power cable's not plugging in can I
see yes sir
go ahead Dan has any discussion happened
on bringing back the Black Shaft for the
Original Gangster screwdriver now that
the Precision has proven itself mine was
stolen recently and I love the black
finish compared to
Silver
um this is not for this monitor it was
with the monitor that's why I I I can't
I don't know what to tell you they don't
go together
um if we can find a treatment that is
black enough and strong enough and
durable enough and all the things that
we need um we would love to do a Black
Shaft
screwdriver
but we haven't yet um and I wouldn't say
that the Precision is necessarily
um just just because we've done a black
Precision driver doesn't mean that we
would do a black shafted regular
screwdriver there's a couple reasons for
that one is that the Precision driver is
not the kind of thing that we expect
people to just Huck in their tool bag
and you know get you know beat up um and
we expect it to kind of live in a case
whether it's ours or one from I fix it
or someone like that uh we expect it to
kind of be cared for a bit more and
mostly just hang out in your hands or on
your desk on your project mat or
whatever uh number two is that the
screwdriver is not even made of this
screwdriver is not made of the same
material this is anodized aluminum so
anodizing is an excellent high
durability finish it's still going to
chip occasionally if you know you ding
it on something or whatever you can see
I got a little one in M but because it
actually transforms the top layer of the
aluminum it's it's really really really
strong um our shaft on the screwdriver
is stainless steel it's not an it's not
anodized can you anodize steel either
way it's definitely a different process
and we have not found that it is good
enough why don't you just like make it
out of bers or
something uh we are not exploring EX
materials for screwdriver shafts anytime
soon we've had enough nightmares with
bad screwdriver shafts all right let's
fire this thing up do you get it you
ready black metal is it going to
work here we go a fan is spinning yeah
that's a good sign got that
RGB man AMD and Intel better
together you know what's crazy five
years ago those would have been swapped
I know right
yeah wow you went really high end on the
uh monitor Elijah the power cable is not
on the Shelf there so I just grabbed the
next monitor okay well that's quite the
monitor we've got like a QD OLED what
looks like I think this is the 14 is
this the 4K why what the heck D I think
it is the is this the 4K 240 HZ yeah are
you are you high sorry I don't think I'm
allowed to ask you that I don't think I
can answer that
why don't look at my
[Laughter]
eyes all right down want to hit me with
another message we lost your mic did I
really do that again hey it booted
though okay hit me oh hey hey hey hey
look that that's good that's good that's
what we want uh Dan do you want to hit
me with another merch message while I
reboot this thing so that I can actually
dial in the ram timings sure has uh
sorry no we already did that one
greetings from Colorado lonus what do
you think about 3D movies watch through
a VR headset and the complete lack of
services to watch 3D movies nowadays any
thoughts on on completely VR
movies oo okay I haven't tried Apple's
VR Movie experience thing whatever it's
called where you're on the submarine I
really want to but after the review of
the Apple Vision Pro I brought it back
to work and then I've never touched it
again um i' I've been meaning to grab it
and bring it home and try that just cuz
I what it called submerged or something
like that I think anyway I want to try
it it sounds super cool I don't have an
opinion until I actually try it but what
from what I've heard it is super cool as
for watching 3D movies in VR awesome I
mean that is where you're going to get
the best possible display um but for me
it's the same thing again that I brought
up in my review of the Apple Vision Pro
where here
hello yeah I'll do the windows thing
okay yes sir or not I was I was going to
help you like yeah just hold shift when
restarting yeah
um what was I saying 3D movies yeah 3D
movies
so it's the same thing that I brought up
in the review of the Apple Vision Pro
right where it's the best way to watch
big screen content as long as you're
watching it by yourself and for a lot of
people that's appealing for me it's not
I almost never oh damn it I missed it
one more time I almost never watch a
movie by myself um especially not oh I'm
trying to remember
UI UI there we go
okay trying to remember like if I'm just
like watching something on my phone I
will um or if like I'm watching
something at the gym I will but those
are not things that I'm I have a VR
headset on for like if I'm at the gym I
am at the gym I'm not wearing a VR
headset and if I'm you if I'm watching
something on my phone it's because I'm
in the bath or I'm like otherwise not
able to be like bolted into something so
VR headsets they just don't really they
don't really have a place in my daily
life other than beats saer just exercise
unfortunately I I love VR it's I I love
immersive experiences I think it's super
cool I'm so so so ready for a
replacement to the index actually I got
to try the I got to try the big screen
Beyond with their audio strap I still
haven't done that let me know how it is
I've been meaning to also we have one of
those VAR or whatever we have one of
those vario headsets that I really want
to try too all right what do you think
we're going to are we going to get uh
dop or XMP or whatever where the heck do
you even where do you even control that
stuff here overclock mode bus speed Auto
manual oh here we go XMP settings boom
3200 think it's going to work uh I think
it's going to work okay I believe we're
going straight to 3200 no problems I
mean realistically it does come down to
board layout and Trace design to an
extent but it also comes out comes down
in a big way to the integrated memory
controller on your CPU and as far as I
can tell AMD doesn't just you know put
their the crappiest possible memory
controllers on their entry level chips
all right do we have Steam on it steam
should be installed okay here we go do
we have a mouse pad by any chance cuz as
much as I love the modmat it is not a
mouse pad I mean I have a big one I
don't have although this is convenient
if we' used a modmat as our mouse pad
back in the day when we forgot to remove
those feed off of that mouse in a short
circuit and we would have found them cuz
I just moved it once and it removed the
feet covers from this MSI
Mouse that's a
feature all right let's I do not have an
internet connection so we're going to
have to sort that out we're going to
need oh are there not what happened to
the C Oh no I got it I got it I got it
it was so managed by our magnetic Cable
Management that I couldn't see it let's
go I can't believe that this compter
computer booted up I expected it to be
whammied we downloaded those two games
on the Z Drive can I help you guys yeah
do you have the oh thing managed uhor
I'll let I'll let you do it I'm going to
come over here and I'm going to be Dan
I'm going to be producer Dan into a
merch message hey Lexus I'm starting a
new oh wait is his mic on Dan is your
mic on am I in two
mics yep
oh and he's not going to fix it for me
wow what a guy realized the
problem yeah maybe the other way
around nice Hi Alexis I'm starting a new
water cooled build do you think it's
possible to flood the loop with an inert
gas that is denser than air before I
fill the loop so that I can avoid
bacterial
buildup hi Mason B you are overthinking
it you just need to put a little bit of
bioside in your Loop once you fill it
and that is going to take get you right
sorted out it's not going to affect
performance and as cool as it is to like
put inert gas in your Loop or whatever
um yeah you you really really really
really don't need to do that
um I mean if you do make a video about
it like that sounds fire but uh yeah you
don't have to Matthew M says I was
considering using magnetic Cable
Management power brick holders to mount
some external hard hard drives under my
desk but given the powerful magnets I
was kind of curious good idea or bad
idea you would actually be very
surprised oh metal Maxine and float
plane chat says argon cooled PC okay I
have actually wanted for quite some time
to see what happens if you cool a PC
with some other gas like like a denser
gas can you like carry the heat away
from a heat sink faster like it I don't
know I don't know it's it's something
I've wanted to experiment with for a
long time someday someday we'll do it
but but not yet um what was I talking
about again uhoh I think I lost it right
you would be very surprised how powerful
of a magnet you need to have any kind of
impact on a hard drive like I even hard
drive manufacturers are having a hard
time controlling flipping the bits and
they have to use like heat assisted
recording in some of the highest end
drives now and some of their most dense
drives um Ty in actually did a really
good short on the LTT Channel where he
showed that unless you get into
absolutely ridiculous territory a magnet
is not going to do anything to your hard
drive so I would say you definitely can
um but I would question the need to do
that because if your if your drive is
sort of permanently enough there that
you need to like cable manage it into
your
setup maybe it would be better to just
install it as an internal drive there is
a performance advantage to doing that
over
USB
um look at yeah tinan says it'll stop
the motor if it's too close yes but if
it's in an external hard drive enclosure
it shouldn't he doesn't recommend
mounting hard drives with MCM okay there
you go tinan has spoken in chat but I
sincerely doubt I sincerely doubt that
in an external enclosure you would
manage to get it close enough to cause a
problem but take that for what it is he
says don't do it
so we don't recommend it officially
there you go what else we
got
archive wait no way I Timothy M says do
you ever miss the old days in the garage
and staying in my basement Timmy okay
that's less weird than it sounds if you
have the full context because there was
a year that we went down to I think it
was PS and we did stay in Timmy's
basement it was it was voluntary like we
were not held there against our will but
but we did in fact we did in fact stay
in Timmy's basement uh it saved us uh it
saved us a hotel cost which was good and
we got to hang out with Timmy tech TV
which was also good and yeah I actually
had our our Christmas dinner our first
ever annual Christmas dinner for smash
Champs last night
and between the full-tim and part-timers
I think we're up to about 17 people 15
of which attended the Christmas dinner
and it was it was pretty it was pretty
fun it was it was different lmg has
gotten bigger in all the ways that are
good and in all the ways that are not as
good um you know we have to be uh it's
it's it's a more corporate Vibe things
are a little more controlled they're a
little more structured they're not
really off the cuff anymore and there's
definitely really good things about that
from like uh you know liability and
insurance and and you
know HR streamlining and you know all
these things perspective but uh there
are things that are more fun about
working with a really small team and it
was it was fun it was it was fun kind of
hanging out with the smash Champs team
even though I I only really know a
handful of them like some of them are
pretty some of them are really new like
everyone's pretty new I mean it only
opened a few months ago uh but some of
them are especially new like some have
been kind of working behind the scenes
in the leadup to the launch so I've and
and I knew them before hiring them so so
those folks it's uh it's a little more
natural just like hanging out with but
yeah everyone else is pretty cool
too archive man these are these are
coming in pretty fast here getting the
merch M are you you guys doing okay over
there yeah ragnaroks just having a
little bit of an issue booting we're
getting an error code that we're just
trying to resolve right now okay
Ragnarok won't start from the nas so it
might have to install it locally but
it's 175 gigs oh wow uh it oh man at
that point would it be faster to go get
a higher speed Nick and install it and
then copy it I think it might just got
the steam Drive oh yeah okay yeah steam
drive and know where it is no one knows
where the steam Drive is oh good hey
professional Tech Media company don't
worry we got this what was I going to
say oh yeah do we have resizable bar
installed while he's going and doing
that do you want to make sure rebar is
enabled in the Bios it should be by
default on a modern board like that but
we should double check CU Arc will not
perform its best without resizable
bar all right what else we got
here Brandon s says I'm sure you
couldn't make a whole episode about it
but if you could take an excuse to look
at Wheelchairs and hearing aid teex
someday it'd be validating to see
someone talk about how old the tech is
yeah the fact that the fact that it's
been so obvious for so long that Apple
was gunning for hearing the hearing aid
Market the the the accessibility market
and the incumbents have as far as I can
tell effectively done nothing to prevent
them from coming in and completely
disrupting their industry is flipping
wild to me it shows how something can be
as mainstream as apple I want to make
sure it's enabled and you can still have
an entire industry being
like nothing is going to happen we can
just keep charging insane amounts of
money for ancient technology everything
should be fine like absolutely wild to
me um as for wheelchairs I got to be
honest with you I don't know enough
about it but I do know that that's
something that Jerry rig everything
talks about a fair bit and has done some
really cool stuff in the space that's
realistically the most that I know about
it um the only reason I know anything
about hearing aids is just cuz I have a
family member who is uh who's heart of
hearing and who uh worked in a school
for the deaf so I know a little bit of
sign language I know a little bit about
um I know a little bit about the culture
but I'm always hesitant to I know enough
about these communities to know that
coming in as an outsider and talking
about it is not necessarily something
that I should be doing and while some
people might be chill with it and
appreciate the spotlight others would
really prer that I yield that Spotlight
to you know um members of that community
so it's a it's a tricky it's a tricky
thing and I we we have looked at some
for example accessible controllers and
stuff in the past but it's not something
that I like to dive into too
much um pug boy says airpods don't
compete with the concealed style of
modern hearing aids though and that's
fair enough but with the number of
people that I see just walking around
wearing airpods I'd say say having
airpods in your ears is as stealthy as
just about anything
like I don't know I don't know just
saying just
saying um but I can totally understand
that everyone has very different
feelings and you know what works for
them works for them and my perspective
on this is obviously Limited at best
thank you all right archive that we
don't Anonymous asks I was looking at
those little 3D printed CPU clam shells
that you guys use where do you get them
I thought they looked 3D printed if so
have you released the St STL file or do
you plan on releasing the STL file we
absolutely plan to release the STL files
for all the cool little things that we
have created internally to make our
lives a little bit easier it has taken
some time for us to get that off the
ground for reasons that I'm sure make
sense to the people who are working on
it but I do not fully understand um it's
been a little frustrating to me that it
has taken so long for us to release this
stuff but I have been assured that in
the next weeks not months we're going to
have our repository up with some of the
cool little stuff that we have like we
have for example for our magnetic Cable
Management
um power power bar key holder one we
have uh we have one that takes one of
those on one side and then hold a
screwdriver on the other side we've got
uh man I don't know we have so much
stuff we have like little stacking
things that hold screwdrivers I think
we've got we we've got a ton of stuff
including those those little CPU holders
and we want to put it all in a
repository for people to
use
um hi there says yron I just found out
my Black Friday package got processed in
Germany yesterday but I'm in China how
much chance I will have it before
Chinese New Year I'm going to be honest
with
youon I have no
idea I cannot IM imagine why it would
have been more practical for them to go
all the way across North America all the
way across the Atlantic Ocean and then
well into Europe to route to China
anyone in chat like is that a is that a
Thing versus just going over the
Pacific like I my best guess is that it
just has to do with like capacity and
you know how much capacity there is on
the cargo planes and and that's how
they're picking that's how they're
picking the route versus you know the
the shortest possible distance um draiss
says that Germany is the major shipping
hub and I'm like okay like that's cool
um but yeah Anna maxtor says my package
is headed to Peru and is also in
Germany
okay sure I have never been in China and
ordered something from North America
before so shut up dig TF says say I've
ordered on LT store before I live in New
Zealand and that goes through Germany as
well and that's just what because DHL is
German too far gone says they live in
New Zealand theirs didn't so it seems to
just come down to whatever makes the
most
sense to them with their logic H good
job
everybody cool same for India apparently
says Joshua all right cool
wolf West says I think it's due to DHL
doing that to save money I someday
someday I will work in the shipping and
Logistics industry and I will learn how
that helps save money um shipping things
halfway around the world before sending
them back the other Halfway Around the
World in the other direction but now I
do I have not done that and I do not
know so I have no insight to share with
you how's that going over there good
we're lumping in Ragnarok some bringing
a game drive over but we could play the
other games if you want let's do that we
can do parking let's do it let's play
you suck at parking Linus all right I
assume this is a controller game do we
have any controllers handy trick
question David has a whole wall of
controllers over there so why don't we
um grabbing one really quick thank you
so much appreciate
you did I just hit the mute button again
I didn't oh good uh metal Maxine says
Dan has an international Logistics
degree I think is that true Dan yeah
okay can you explain why everything
routes through Germany instead of going
like maybe on a direct path uh let me
just mute this mic uh probably because
of like the standard distribution hubs
right if I am always sending planes to
one place just go to that one place
instead of going somewhere else right if
there's no direct
connection kind of frustrating you think
from like West Coast North America to
China like it's China You' think that
you'd have the Hub there why wouldn't
you I mean like most FedEx I believe
goes through is it is it Memphis like
every single FedEx plane goes to their
Hub they do all their maintenance
everything like that okay okay plain
maintenance sure I don't I don't
remember where UPS is is that Detroit I
feel like this is the kind of thing that
like AI would actually be perfect for
helping with I mean they're probably
using it already I I I just mean if you
were to if you were to have you know
more hubs yeah then you could kind of
help to solve for you know what's the
most efficient way to have it go do some
stuff and then end up back at the main
Depot for maintenance or whatever I
don't know but sure there you have it
it's more cost effective apparently to
just have your main hubs and then have
everybody you know who is an expert at
doing whatever of the crap it is that
they're doing there and sure okay oh
cool hey we've got the Nixie
npo1 let's go press right trigger to
accelerate let's play some you suck at
parking I am I am stoked stoked to try
this oh uh
I'm also stoked on the fact that I'm
getting a casual 380 frames per second
on my $500 gaming PC now obviously this
is not the world's heaviest game by any
stretch of the imagination I've also set
the monitor to 240 and I think it's is
it 4K but we're running at
4K let's go it might be worth getting
the verification for Ragnarok going
while I've already started installing it
oh okay all right grass and snow are
on let's go do you want to get a closeup
of my 370 FPS that people don't believe
me let's go let's get a closer closeup
closer
closeup 380 $500 gaming PC sick all
right right trigger to
accelerate
okay oh okay left trigger to break
stopping is parking there is no reverse
are you kidding me okay so I just need
to like nail this boom now park on all
spots you can steer oh oh you already
parked here find a different way I know
I can
steer whoa let's go
woohoo okay did that count I think that
counted oh this is fun dude the driving
physics in this game are so fun oh you
can't reverse
right that makes
sense dude it's just drift Central I
love
it how have I never heard of this
probably because you only play CS I
don't play
CS oh no oh keep pract oh yeah okay skip
tutorial let's go welcome to you second
parking have fun parkster oh I don't
think I'm going to be playing
online what's campaign Inferno drive
around find landmarks to Play Levels or
in parking spots to unlock new islands
okay oh my God you can go off the edge
that that makes sense that seems like
the kind of thing at Elder Hut okay let
it Sizzle
carue well this is fun Jan says this
game looks so fun hey did I mention that
we got it from our sponsor for today's
video Green Man Gaming do I have any
more talking points for them or anything
Elijah or not really man they just have
a sick a sick sale you know they got a
oh no oh my God I'm on fire my car is on
fire what what
happens I die I mean yeah kind of checks
out um logically
speaking oh oh oh okay uh I think I
follow okay that counted apparently okay
boom dude this is so fun I kind of love
it okay so this time I do not take the
first oh no oh oh oh
jeez
okay dude please tell me they have like
competitive modes and stuff oh oh my God
no not that I should be competing in
them oh what do you mean this is just
like you driving IRL right I think I am
better at parking than this in real life
okay I just need to take this wide yeah
there we go oh let's go oh my God this
jump okay sure oh it's got the oh
shoot and a casual 390 frames per second
right now oh well that doesn't work very
well and we're in motion
540 oh yeah that was that was not a fair
comparison though he was in the middle
of nowhere dude this is fun oh come on
okay it's sort of fun it's the kind of
like frustrating fun that uh you know
some people are into
masochists Dan
probably okay we're just going to take
it a little slower here we're gonna okay
we're going to take it a little slower
what no no yes okay I got the second one
and then yeah there's a third one still
okay I can do
this I can do this
boom wait I only have 15 seconds I
didn't even realize that each attempt
was time wait I'm down to oh no you have
a fixed amount of time time total to do
all of them I only have 6 seconds left I
can't make it I can't make it
Dan
no last car last car oh my God I can
still make it I just have to be perfect
in every oh my god well out of fuel what
do you mean out of
fuel either
way hold on how quiet is this
machine Andy stock
pretty
quiet oh good timing for train pretty
loud
yeah dude this thing's
quiet I love this
computer do we have uh do we have
Hardware info on
here uh maybe okay uh if we don't I'm
going to get it real quick so then when
we play our next
game yeah see how uh Ragnarok is doing
as well hopefully go okay yeah yeah yeah
should be about 10 minutes or something
uh it's at
3% did you guys configure it to allow
transfers to continue well gaming
probably not I think like that by
default okay maybe it might be on this
drive as well oh okay so you can just
add this drive as a uh game Drive really
quick okay well I'm
allowing okay let's have a look
common got of War Ragnarok let's go
storage at Drive
boom here we go this is going to be
great now we're gaming
boys oh we might have we might have
bunged it we might have bunged it no
you're good did you add it as a
destination hold on hold
on hold on I'm going to un I'm going to
unbind that
one game Drive d
uh remove Library yes okay then I'm
going to manage and uninstall God of War
Ragnarok that i' I've run into this
before where you're like downloading it
to one of your game libraries and then
you like plug in one that has it and
then you go to launch it and it's like
has no idea what to do you don't you
don't want it it's a bad
time all right let's throw the other
game drive back on there
boom and God of War Ragnarok is ready to
go okay before before we do that though
let's go ahead and grab our portable
copy of Hardware info which is a super
super awesome Hardware monitoring
program and I want to see what kind of
temps we're getting on our CPU and GPU
in spite of the fact that we
have functionally no case airf flow we
just have the one rear fan which In
fairness is all we can really expect for
a $35 case but um it's not necessarily
ideal for having your Hardware running
as nicely as
possible all right CPU which one do we
want sure we'll take um T
die Okay so we've got a little graph for
our CPU now let's go grab a little graph
for our
GPU GPU core
temperature GPU Global oh the current
maximum temperature okay so that'll be
our hot spot probably okay let's grab
our hot spot and our core attemp for the
GPU oh shoot I always I always
do that a and of course it's a web
search because why wouldn't it be a web
search thanks
Microsoft I always do that I uh
specifically removed the ability to do
that on your when laptops oh
fud what sorry what ability did you
remove from my w laptop they be able to
the ability to web search from the start
menu oh really yeah this computer and
the other one too yeah I hate
it we should do a we should do just like
a like a Windows modding guide D Windows
Windows yeah like it'd be probably a
great little float plane exclusive no no
I think that could be a Mainline video
Elijah do you mind do you mind adding
that to the next writers meeting we'll
do just like little tweaks like that we
do like 10 Windows tips to make window
better um there's some there's some
really good stuff like better indexing
for um uh for Network folder shares and
stuff like that so you don't have to
wait around for forever to the writer
meeting yeah handful handful of stuff
like that would be really cool okay okay
God of War Ragnarok let's go oh I guess
I'll be using my controller again
probably
casual yeah I'm not you're not gonna
play God of War with mouse keyboard I
know I know jeez casual this guy oh
what's
updating okay comment R okay do you want
to hit me with the merch message in the
meantime then yeah sure I think I've got
one left here true lonus could you
showcase the commuter backpack and would
it come with the big locking carabin or
like the LTD backpack loved it but sadly
lost it you oh you lost your original oh
dude it's so big how'd you lose it no
just kidding I'm just making fun of our
gigantic backpack um yeah sure I can
show you guys the commuter bag if you
really want we do have uh a commercial
we just did and I believe oh no I think
they just did the photography the
product photography for the product page
so I guess yeah it's probably not up
there yet
um oh seriously wow thanks so much wow
there's so many people watching the
stream today how you guys doing YouTube
chat I never talked to you guys kosum
says I play God of War Ragnarok using
mouse and keyboard haah see this is why
I don't talk to you guys because your
psychos god of war with a keyboard and
mouse I mean I've never played God of
War so for all I know it's a perfectly
valid option I'm just bugging you
hm Connor suggests if you do a d Windows
Windows you should do it in sections
this is safe beginner friendly and then
like increasing levels of kind of
dangerous like before you get into kind
of any sort of like regist reg editing
yeah exactly I think removing the web
search is registry registry is it
registry yeah man but the thing is like
if
you I think there's scripts for it
though yeah oh scripts are scarier I
think running a script that edits your
registry is way less safe than changing
a couple of Val especially because the
values often have names that somewhat
seem kind of intuitive to what they do
like if you're running a script that
changes your registry I'd be pretty I'd
be pretty skeed out by
that you want to continue through the
setup of uh God of War or the backpack
you were on the backpack for the
commuter I can get through the setup if
you want right
um yeah sure do you want to do you want
to do the setup I I can kind of run you
guys through it it's obviously not as
big oh look Elijah's backpack is here
that's
convenient Elijah I'm going to borrow
your backpack just for size reference
I'm not going to dig through it yet okay
so there's the size comparison but
what's really cool about the commuter
bag is that it's not as smaller or as it
seems in terms of carrying capacity
because the original bag has an internal
water bottle holder and the commuter bag
has an ex external water bottle holder
so you do you do definitely have less
carrying capacity and one of the biggest
differences is here and the like device
carrying oh okay well I can't open it
but the point is that uh the original
backpack has enough room to like stuff a
steam deck at the bottom on top of your
laptop and your tablet and then like
another screen safe pocket there this is
really designed for laptop tablet and
that's about it
if you want oh hey look Dan's got his
there you go so there's the original
which you could put like truly
ridiculous class of Hardware in and
still have room for like your your
chargers and whatever else you need um
and then yeah like I said it's got the
two screen safe Pockets instead of just
the one in the commuter and then this
thick Boy Pocket that has screen safe
material at the bottom for like an ally
or steam deck or a claw or something
like that so a little bit less device
capacity but the pouch of holding does
make a triumphant return so you can just
like stash your Tech sack down in the
bottom here you've got a bunch of
organizing Pockets including some that
are magnetic let's go or have zippers or
like other means of kind of holding
stuff in place um little kind of pocket
down here our air tag pocket makes a
return um it doesn't have the front
organizing pouch either though which I
really like for quick access but it's a
smaller bag what do you want I think
it's 25 rather than 35 lers or something
like that does anyone know does anyone
remember off the top of their head it'll
be on the product page don't quote me on
that um but all of that is while still
being very Tech forward while still
having extremely robust build quality so
we've got our dual grommets on the
carrying strap so that's not going to
come off it's not going to wear out
we've got um a reinforced
Stitch as well as a grommet on the
bottom here because I hate it when stuff
like that wears out especially because
it costs so little to reinforce it uh
we've got the same style of straps that
have been extremely popular on the
original bag with sort of the the bridge
here uh but we have the new contoured um
shoulder straps that help make it a
little bit more friendly to people with
different widths of frames um that's a
piece of feedback that we've gotten a
lot on the original backpack is for more
petite people uh it can be
quite big and quite uh quite quite wide
and it doesn't
really doesn't really come in and like
like sit properly on their body so these
new contoured ones um seem to be very
widely compatible with humans um I think
that's about all I have to say about
that since this game is apparently ready
for us to play we are currently on 4K
medium but you could adjust if you would
like yeah I think we're not going to go
4K okay let's
go let's go
uh wait seriously is this not going to
let
me oh yeah sure sorry Andy watch your
cable is it how do I uh seriously I
don't want to
good why why is modern gaming like
this do I just have to set the render
scale uh you might have to change the
full screen so no it's that doesn't work
oh I missed
Okay so if I go
window then I'm just stuck with window
there's no full screen
window let's see if chat has the
solution here like is it just a is it
just a scaling thing like render scale
no this is just TAA Windows setting res
yeah you might have to adjust it in
Windows seriously it might be going
based off your Windows settings for
screen that is so
stupid
ridiculous people are like change
desktop resolution that
is that is
ridiculous um okay well give me a minute
there's a couple other things that I
want to have a look at okay we're on xss
TAA quality let's go uh let's go
quality oh well that changes our
resolution sure okay our render
resolution is a little oh false our
render resolution is a little above
1080P and then we're going to be using
xcss to upscale it that's about what I
had wanted to do anyway so there we
go
cool um okay anything with dead zones
can I get rid of dead zones oh that
wouldn't be in here
anyway
okay controller view controls can I no
that's it maybe it's in
gameplay I hate dead
zones and I can't adjust them okay great
oh fine whatever I'm over it oh my God
we're compiling
shaders uh what do you guys have running
on here for FPS monitoring is that frame
view or is that just the built-in steam
one that's steam one did we did we not
get frame view no cuz we had the
built-in steam one oh okay uh the
built-in steam one sucks we should use
frew
okay isn't dead zone the new like MOBA
shooter uh no Deadlock but very
close yeah Mr David can I help you are
you I'm just hanging out I'm oh okay
we're seven minutes over oh okay I'm not
pressing you just hurry it up okay
David's just standing here
waiting hi lucky oh yeah Lucky's over
there I actually curious how
this dude this thing is killer to
be well yeah but can it Whatever as well
as yeah whatever got
him okay there we go frame view INF guys
I never used the steam one how do you
turn it off because I don't care about
it and I don't want it uh and uh Elijah
enabled resizable bar okay good got it I
found it okay okay all right now we have
a proper FPS
counter whoa that's
new oh did it
stop cool so our a FPS is sitting
somewhere in the neighborhood of around
70 with our 1% lows hovering between
High 40s and low 50s occasionally
dipping way down to about
30 looks really good we're above 1080p
right we're like I want to uh I want to
skip this can I skip this no it's very
short okay I love I love modern gaming
in insert modern year uh Dan you have
merch messages I've got one more all
right hit me will it be better to wait
for the 50 Series Nidia graphics cards
or should I go for a 4080 super
currently just curious given the Tariff
situation that is a very good question
and the answer is that I cannot answer
that for you it seems like a lot of the
Tariff conversations could be just saber
rattling but you never know you never
know what's going to happen when a new
Administration takes over in the US and
they are going to be dictating a lot of
the terms for you know what the what the
trading situation is going to look like
into 2025 and Beyond so good luck
everybody
um we kind of laid out everything that
we had to say about it and that should
you buy a PC Now video that we did a
little while ago so if you haven't
watched that go ahead and watch it if
you have watched it and you're looking
for more information unfortunately I
don't have any I don't have a
functioning crystal ball sorry guys
all right how we doing here it's almost
over all right David assured me it's
short so if it's not short then you know
who to blame you blame David and if is
short you know to
blame thankfully he's not
miked was a a short
joke I am seeing a little bit of stutter
here and there but I don't know how much
of that is because we're compiling
shaders in the background so
unfortunately we're probably going to
have to stall for time while this
finishes compiling shaders and then we
can get a fair impression of how the
game is running so in the meantime uh
Dan if you have any more merch messages
coming in let me know otherwise hey
maybe I'll do something really weird and
I'll hang out with YouTube chat for a
change scary I know right they are dude
they are like unhinged every time I dive
into YouTube chat I'm like why' I do
this again what about twitch chat maybe
they have something to say uh absolutely
not no twitch chat's the worst what do
you mean twitch chat's the worst they
know they're the worst uh yeah Rob gar
says Linus actually has no functioning
balls I don't know that's functional
like that's like that's a no no they
don't function yeah I was going to say
that's an accurate twitch comment no the
uh no the balls function it's the it's
the tube that connects them that doesn't
function yeah so the yeah no if anything
the balls function too good that's why I
had to Nerf them that's a crazy
statement otherwise I would get too many
more kids so what did you call uh your
wife on Ludwig's podcast I called her
excellent breeding stock that's a to
this day a crazy sentence what I mean it
as a compliment it's a
compliment it's a
compliment look it was on a different it
was on a different podcast okay it was
on a different podcast where what
happens at wo stays at w yeah that was W
show that on the yard oh that's totally
fine then that's a different y look she
was there she I wouldn't say I wouldn't
say anything about my wife that I
wouldn't say in front of her I'm just
I'm just saying that like for us to not
have more kids steps needed to be taken
we needed to take steps let's just go
back to YouTube chat yeah let's go okay
how's YouTube chat doing we've left uh
we've left uh twitch chat now which is
good
a um extra cheese says Hey I just picked
up a 7600 X 3D bundle at Microcenter for
my first build What GPU should I grab I
mean oh that's a tough one see like the
best value gaming GPU on the market
right now is the ARB 580 the one that
we're featuring in our $500 build but
you bought a 7600 X 3D you aren't
building a $500 computer so I would say
at the price that you're looking at I
would probably start to look more into
some of amd's more value options and I'm
trying to remember uh what are the what
are the currently available ones a I
find amd's lineup to be
really confusing like what they what
they have available at any given time
like something like 6700 class yeah
looks like those are still those are
still readily available it's like over
$500 it's a good GPU though 12 gigs
vram um I'd say that's probably a good
place to start I see some people
recommending 7900 gr but that's they got
to you know it's balance right like they
bought a 7600 x3d right they don't oh
the GRE is whoa the GRE is cheaper than
oh it's out of stock though yeah okay
so if you could get one the GRE sure is
a great deal but I don't see a single
unit in stock does Micro Center have
them
man when did 70 when did 7900 GRE get so
cheap poor
Kratos sometimes AMD does this though
where they like have a card or they have
a variant of something that
theoretically exists but in practice
they just like bring it out they make a
few of them kind of disrupt the market
kind of like trash the value perception
of the rest of their cards and then it
functionally doesn't exist and you're
just like okay um good job AMD because
now no nobody knows what to recommend
anybody um yeah on Micro Center there's
one from XFX and it says X available in
store
only uh and is out of stock
in literally every location and that's
the only 7900 GRE they have so it's like
yeah good recommendation but
functionally doesn't exist so
okay um like that's uh I remember having
a conversation about this on wano a
while back someone was like why do you
never recommend AMD something was it
like the Fury Fury cards or Vega or
something and I was like because they're
not real because AMD announced these
cards made like 25 of them and then was
like
[Laughter]
der and then they'll like do a price
drop or whatever like promo them away
and then effectively nobody's actually
making anymore and I even I even brought
it up on stre stream I was like here
look here's all of the like this card
available on new You' got like this one
brand and you go to like add them to
cart and if you add any more than two
it's like no sorry you can't buy any
more than that it's out of stock and
it's like yeah this is not even a real
product um so amd's GPU division has
done that like a number of times over
the last five six years where they have
these products that nobody's actually
building boards for AMD doesn't seem to
be actually shipping any gpus they just
exist as sort of like price disruptors
for what amd's own lineup like I'm not
saying price disruptors are bad they're
good but they have to actually be
available so that's one of the things
that I've talked to Intel about with
arcb 580 is like hey you need to talk to
the partners you need to be like look
guys okay
$259.99 $269.99 for like you know if
you've got a nice big cooler a really
nice design or something like that okay
but don't let this get out of control
don't let them be like oh finally an
opportunity to make money on Ark we
let's make another 20 bucks a short-term
thinking you got to buy some market
share right now work with the partners
make sure you guys are getting these
cards in the hands of Gamers building up
the brand building up the install base
giving the driver team something to
actually a reason to work on improving
their driers so you have more than you
know dozens of people out there enjoying
art graphic like get the team motivated
you guys all got to be pulling together
there'll be time to make money make
money later now is not the time um so
I'm I'm hoping I'm hoping that that
makes its way to the top that that makes
its way to the add-in board
Partners I can't guarantee it but I can
hope shoot did I just do it again I
don't know what it is but I'm going to
put this on the other side cuz I'm no no
no I'm just I'm going to put it on the
other side so that I don't do that
anymore okay there we go now I can now I
can lean against my table I can get
comfortable here all right shaders are
almost compiled we're at
89% and this boy is still running pretty
good definitely a little bit of pop in
there definitely some dips and 1%
lows definitely a wolf but at this it's
a very demanding game though I was going
to say at this price it's actually
cheaper than like a PS5 and a PS5 Pro
right so like no $500 well no sorry the
the the disc list version I guess no the
the the PS5 was on promo this Black
Friday for like oh I missed that then oh
that's my bad yeah I'm trying to think I
think that was it that like 350 bucks or
something like that there were some 380
okay PS5 Slims were going for as low as
380 for Black Friday so a PlayStation is
still an outstanding value from a
hardware standpoint but the difference
is that you're locked into their game
store so you're not going to be able to
use our sponsor Green Man Gaming to get
tons of great deals on games um you're
going to be stuck paying with with a
console you're going to be stuck paying
subscription fees potentially you're
going to be stuck with um a higher
potential cost to repair it if anything
happens down the line whereas with a PC
that's modular like this something goes
wrong you just fart a new one into it
and you're good to go so there are like
anything there are pros and cons both
ways people who game on PlayStation are
not idiots they just take that set of
tradeoffs that they prefer and people
who game on PC are not big dumb idiots
they're just people who prefer that set
of tradeoffs um so no a PlayStation 5 is
absolutely still a very compelling value
from a hardware standpoint it's just
that what we are now is very comfortably
within the price bracket we're we're
within the price range instead of having
awkward conversations that go hey lonus
I bought a 7600 x3d at Micro Center What
GPU would you recommend and literally
the only like stepup class of GPU that I
can find is going to cost you $600
freaking dollars just for the GPU before
you've even got a case CPU Ram power
supply cooler anything else right and
that's what I am super excited about
that's why we did the stream we only
planned this stream when I sat down and
did script review um no I think it was
even after script review I think it was
when we uploaded the video I watched it
back I started reading some of the
comments from people and I was like holy
crap we can we can oh no must have been
script review because it was in script
review that I was like hey we should
talk about how you can kind of build a
$500 gaming PC again okay it must have
been then but we only planned this like
last minute to do a stream building a
$500 gaming PC because I was like oh my
goodness this is it this is the key this
is what unlocks it um so this was just
cuz I was excited to finally be able to
show you
guys with a straight face a great value
gaming machine with all new parts for
around 500 bucks it's 540 for those of
you tuning in now $540 we did cheat a
little bit but there are areas where you
could save yourself 40 bucks instead of
buying a brand new case you could just
go find one uh at a local recycler ATX
standard hasn't changed in years decades
actually literally decades so you could
throw this Hardware in some random case
pull the side panel off you know get out
to PA pliers just bend things out of the
way if you got to stick your GPU in
there you could save some money there
you could probably save some money on
the motherboard if you're willing to go
for like a weird like you know TOA um to
Bow brand or something like that uh I
think you could probably Save A Buck on
the power supply if you're willing to go
with like a thermal T smart you could
even get this under 500 bucks but 540
was what we were comfortable with with
all brand new parts from brands that we
know are going to actually back you up
in the event of a warranty claim or
something like that freaking incredible
our shaders are 99% compiled and let's
have a look at God of War Ragnarok on a
$500 gaming PC we're running at 4K but
not native we're using xcss upscaling
and so the native rendering is at about
1080p so this is about what you'd get at
1080p in terms of frame rates about it's
actually a little higher all right come
on shaders man don't you love that don't
you love that computer developers they
they have the world's most
warped definition of the last 1% of
things that I think is possible I and I
understand it's not entirely it's not
the developer's fault there can be
unexpected challenges and I get it I get
it I get it I get it I'm not ragging on
you you do great work thank you uh but
ah there we go we are finally done
compiling shaders all right am I allowed
to skip
this no it's a cinematic experience L
all right it's a cinematic experience
well what we can do is we can nope
because there's depth the field so we
can't even evaluate how sharp it looks
now we can actually not
bad there's some messiness in the beard
uh when it's moving so you're you're
definitely yeah as his as his face
swings back and forth if you know what
you're looking for you're going to see a
little bit of upscaling artifacting I'm
also seeing the odd dropped frame but
we've also talked a fair bit about how
this is not a 4K card this is it well
outside of its comfort
zone uh turkey submarine says I wish I
knew the specs of the PC yeah we can run
through that so we've got a uh ryzen 5
5600 right uh or was 5500 sorry it was a
5500 5500 ryzen 5 5500 six core
processor 16 gigs of ddr4 3200 megat
transfer per second memory we went with
an ASRock microatx motherboard the just
the cheapest we could find from a
trusted brand uh we've got a Corsair
cx550 550 wat power supply that was the
minimum that Lucas from the lab would
allow us to use even though we could
probably save some money with oh it's
not there anymore but whatever with with
a cheaper power supply uh this a DIY PC
some cheap case just the cheapest thing
we could find and then an Intel Arc
b580 a patriot p300 SSD oh yeah that's
right Patriot p300 SSD as well we went
with a 512 gig because that's what fit
in our budget if we wanted more storage
then we've got four SATA ports and I did
confirm there is in fact a hard drive
mounting point in the bottom of the case
so we could add something
there and am I ever going to get to
actually play the
game remember when David said that this
opening cinematic thing was short yeah I
I remember remember when chat picked
this game let's blame chat yeah way to
go way to go float plane chat 175 gigs
of just movies that's crazy
all right let's go come on yes yes yes
you need to sleep I know it's tiring
being the God of War whoever said they
wanted Firefox as the game that's not an
option you can't can't have that look I
know you all play
Firefox we just wanted you here longer
yeah I mean mission accomplished then I
suppose all right I'm going back to I'm
going back to YouTube chat they seem
more
trustworthy YouTube chat Redemption Arc
wow um
maybe they just go really weird on
Friday nights we're not at 2500p upscale
to 4K Toby we're at more like
2200 which is a lot lesser than it
sounds like as resolution scales um the
amount that you're adding is so much
more or as you go bigger
or oh whoa look at that we're in game
hey we're in game what up yo all right
we're going this way
can I run oh
okay dude not
bad not bad you're playing like modern
AAA
games like for real on this
machine our previous attempts at like
budget gaming PCs for the last like five
years have been so frustrating because
either we had to go secondhand which I
know there's a there's a cohort of
people out there that are just not going
to consider it right so we either had to
go second hand which upsets those people
or we had to seriously seriously
compromise on performance like when we
did our holiday buyers guide Arc battle
mage wasn't out yet our recommended PC
had an APU because we were like well
realistically at this price you can't
afford a GPU anyway so you might as well
get an APU which will game at like 108p
low in AAA games or might even be forced
to go down to 720p and then you can save
up for a GPU it was like the merry
Christmas wait for your birthday PC I
think was what we called it this is the
merry Christmas right now today PC as
long as you can get your hands on an
arcb 580 super
exciting and I think that pretty much
wraps US unless Dan you have another
merch message or two I have one final
merch message for today all right hit me
from Anonymous they bought a Precision
multi pit and a Precision buil set your
laptop skin looks absurd you weren't
supposed to use it beyond the Qualcomm
daily driver challenge signed a robot
uh oh no way no way I could actually be
debrand I mean no one else would have
any way of knowing that I wasn't
supposed to continue to using it it's
not even for my laptop like honestly I
keep using it as much to upset them as
anything else so they're they're on to
me like look at this it has a cutout for
a Microsoft Surface this isn't a surface
you know how they're all about Precision
Fit and everything this doesn't fit at
all this is just complete complete
nonsense and I've added more stickers to
it now yeah I know it really does look
awful if you don't like it dbrand maybe
you should make better skins oo like the
glow circuit and you could check out our
uh you could check out our sponsor Green
Man Gaming uh they've got a great sale
running right now we picked up did I
just break something cool did that game
close when I dropped my computer next to
the PC that was weird did I did I click
something I I was not paying enough
attention all right neat anyway uh the
point is uh Green Man Gaming check them
out we picked up some actually pretty
great deals on games including you suck
at parking um we're going to have them
Linked In the video description thank
you guys very much for tuning into the
stream big thanks to Dan and
Elijah pathetic um all right play me out
Dan for next
copyrighted no no no don't sing don't
sing don't sing real songs you can cut
it though